=head2 NAME

$_PROGRAM.config - builds a siege.conf template in the user's home directory.

=head2 INTRODUCTION

$_PROGRAM's default settings are stored in $HOME/.siege/siege.conf. This 
utility will create a new $_PROGRAM.conf if one does not already exist.
Generally speaking you should not have to run this command with $_PROGRAM 
releases equal or later to 4.0.0.

At start up, $_PROGRAM checks for a $HOME/.$_PROGRAM/$_PROGRAM.conf. If 
one does not exist, $_PROGRAM will run this command to create a new one
then read that file to configure itself.

=head2 INVOCATION

The format for invoking siege.config is this:

  $_PROGRAM.config [no arguments]

=head2 AUTHOR

$_AUTHOR <$_EMAIL>

=head2 COPYRIGHT

Copyright $_YEARS $_AUTHOR <$_EMAIL>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU
General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License,
or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without
even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not,
write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

=head2 AVAILABILITY

$_PROGRAM.config is distributed as part of $_PROGRAM

=head2 SEE ALSO

$_PROGRAM(1)

